---
title: 'H-MPol: Higher-rank Moments and POLarizabilities'
date: 2023-06-01
---

 Anoop got awarded the doctoral grant for his proposal titled "Computer simulations of the interface between aqueous solution and solid surfaces".

<!--more-->
**Abstract**
<div style="text-align: justify"> 
Moment and polarizability tensors serve as compressed representations of the electron density distribution within a molecule. Leveraging these parameters enables the recreation of the potential energy landscape akin to that generated by the actual electron density distribution. Consequently, the utilization of moment and polarizability tensors facilitates the efficient modeling of molecular interactions. The interaction of molecules with external fields/perturbations have been modelled as the interaction of the external field with the moments and polarizabilities of the molecules. The HMPol code was designed to simplify the calculation of higher order moments and polarizabilities. The code is capable of calculating: 

- Moments:
    - Dipole
    - Quadrupole
    - Octopole
    - Hexadecapole

- Polarizabilites:
    - dipole-dipole
    - dipole-quadrupole
    - quadrupole-quadrupole

</div>

Concept: The moments are calculated by integrating the electron density and the corresponding magnitude of the distance vector. The polarizabilities require the application of perturbations in terms of fields and field-gradients. This is done by the use of MM (molecular mechanics) point charges to perturb the molecule confined in the QM region. 





[HMPOL](https://gitlab.com/AnoopANair/the-hmpol-project) namespace on gitlab.
